# AMR_Impact

Predicting the impact of antimicrobial resistance research.

The body of research aimed at combatting antimicrobial resistance (AMR), an urgent global public health threat, is immense and continually expanding. Due to resource limitation, the prioritisation of translatable research (through the allocation of funding) is essential. However, understanding the intricate relationship between scientific efforts and their practical impact is challenging. While the conventional method of funding allocation centres on peer review, this could be enhanced by making predictions about the potential impact of proposed studies. Here we examine such a concept by employing Natural Language Processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) algorithms to forecast several impact-related metrics (age-normalised citation count, Altmetric score, patent mentions, and policy mentions) for published studies relating to AMR research. We show that models which contain only simple features (title word count, abstract word count, number of authors, country, and article type) perform considerably worse than those which also include natural language (title, abstract and MeSH terms). We also show that predictors of impact differ depending on how impact is defined and can change greatly over time. Finally, we show that more unique and interdisciplinary studies have, on average, a higher number of (and higher variance in) age-normalised citation counts, Altmetric scores and patent mentions, but a lower number of age-normalised policy mentions.
